docs/faq.rst, before:

.. _faq:


Frequently asked questions
==========================

The following notes answer some common questions, and may be useful to
you when using pwned-passwords-django.


What versions of Django and Python are supported?
-------------------------------------------------

As of pwned-passwords-django |release|, Django 3.2, 4.1, and 4.1 are supported,
on Python 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, and 3.11 (Django 4.1 and 4.2 only). Note that Django
3.2's support for Python 3.10 was added in Django 3.2.9, so you may encounter
problems with Python 3.10 and earlier Django 3.2 versions.


Should I use the validator, the middleware, or the API directly?
----------------------------------------------------------------

It's recommended to enable both the validator and the middleware. :ref:`The
validator <validator>` by itself can catch many attempts to set a user's
password to a known-compromised value, but cannot catch cases where a user
already has a compromised password and is continuing to use it, or when a
user's password is set/changed by something other than Django's standard auth
components. :ref:`The middleware <middleware>` can catch that case, provided
you're checking the ``request.pwned_passwords`` attribute in your view code.

Using :ref:`the direct API <api>` should only be necessary in rare cases where
neither the validator nor the middleware is sufficient.


I'm getting timeouts from the Pwned Passwords API. What can I do?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

By default, pwned-passwords-django makes requests to the Pwned Passwords API
with a timeout of one second. You can change this by specifying the Django
setting :data:`~django.conf.settings.PWNED_PASSWORDS` and setting the key
``API_TIMEOUT`` in it to a :class:`float` indicating your preferred timeout in
seconds. For example, to have a timeout of one and a half seconds, you'd set:

.. code-block:: python

  PWNED_PASSWORDS = {
      "API_TIMEOUT": 1.5,
  }


How can this be secure? It's sending passwords to some random site!
-------------------------------------------------------------------

It's *not* actually sending passwords to any other site, and that's the magic.

You can read about this in `the post announcing the launch of version 2 of
Pwned Passwords
<https://www.troyhunt.com/ive-just-launched-pwned-passwords-version-2/>`_, but
the summary of how it works is:

1. pwned-passwords-django hashes the password, and sends only the first five
   digits of the hexadecimal digest of the hash to Pwned Passwords.

2. Pwned Passwords responds with a list of hash suffixes (all the digits of the
   hash *except* the first five) for every entry in its database matching the
   submitted five-digit prefix.

3. pwned-passwords-django checks that list to see if the remainder of the
   password hash is present, and if so treats the password as compromised.

This means that neither the password, nor the full hash of the password, is
ever sent to any third-party site or service by pwned-passwords-django.

.. warning:: **You can still accidentally disclose passwords!**

   pwned-passwords-django uses an API that never discloses the password or its
   hash, but that doesn't mean the rest of your code or third-party libraries
   won't.

   You should take care to use `Django's tools for filtering sensitive
   information from tracebacks and error reports
   <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/howto/error-reporting/#filtering-sensitive-information>`_
   to ensure that your logging and monitoring systems don't accidentally log or
   expose raw passwords or their hashes. The utilities inside
   pwned-passwords-django :ref:`do what they can to mitigate this
   <filter-sensitive>`, but other code that interacts with
   pwned-passwords-django may need take its own measures.

   You should also be extremely conservative about allowing third-party
   JavaScript to run on your site, and periodically audit all JavaScript you
   use; remember that JavaScript can access anything your users enter on your
   site, and potentially do malicious things with that information.


How do I run the tests?
-----------------------

pwned-passwords-django's tests are run using `nox <https://nox.thea.codes/>`_,
but typical installation of pwned-passwords-django (via ``pip install
pwned-passwords-django``) will not install the tests.

To run the tests, download the source (`.tar.gz`) distribution of
pwned-passwords-django |release| from `its page on the Python Package Index
<https://pypi.org/project/pwned-passwords-django/>`_, unpack it (``tar zxvf
pwned-passwords-django-|version|.tar.gz`` on most Unix-like operating systems),
and in the unpacked directory run the following at a command prompt:

.. tab:: macOS/Linux/other Unix

   .. code-block:: shell

      python -m pip install nox
      python -m nox

.. tab:: Windows

   .. code-block:: shell

      py -m pip install nox
      py -m nox

Note that to run the full test matrix you will need to have each supported
version of Python available. To run only specific test tasks, you can invoke
``nox`` with the ``-s`` flag to select a single test task, ``-t`` to run all
tasks matching a particular tag (like ``docs``), or ``--python`` passing a
Python version to run only tasks for that version. For example, to run tests
for Python 3.10 only, you could run:

.. tab:: macOS/Linux/other Unix

   .. code-block:: shell

      python -m nox --python "3.10"

.. tab:: Windows

   .. code-block:: shell

      py -m nox --python "3.10"

By default, ``nox`` will only run the tasks whose associated Python versions
are available on your system. For example, if you have only Python 3.8 and 3.9
installed, test runs for Python 3.7, 3.10, and 3.11 would be skipped.


How am I allowed to use this code?
----------------------------------

The pwned-passwords-django module is distributed under a `three-clause BSD
license <http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>`_. This is an open-source
license which grants you broad freedom to use, redistribute, modify and
distribute modified versions of pwned-passwords-django. For details, see the
file `LICENSE` in the source distribution of pwned-passwords-django.

.. _three-clause BSD license: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause


I found a bug or want to make an improvement!
---------------------------------------------

The canonical development repository for pwned-passwords-django is online at
<https://github.com/ubernostrum/pwned-passwords-django>. Issues and pull
requests can both be filed there.

Commit message:

Update Python/Django support matrix in docs.

docs/faq.rst, after:

.. _faq:


Frequently asked questions
==========================

The following notes answer some common questions, and may be useful to
you when using pwned-passwords-django.


What versions of Django and Python are supported?
-------------------------------------------------

pwned-passwords-django |release| supports Django 3.2, 4.2, and 5.0, and Python
3.8 through 3.12. See `Django's Python support matrix
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/faq/install/#what-python-version-can-i-use-with-django>`_
for details of which Python versions are compatible with each version of
Django.


Should I use the validator, the middleware, or the API directly?
----------------------------------------------------------------

It's recommended to enable both the validator and the middleware. :ref:`The
validator <validator>` by itself can catch many attempts to set a user's
password to a known-compromised value, but cannot catch cases where a user
already has a compromised password and is continuing to use it, or when a
user's password is set/changed by something other than Django's standard auth
components. :ref:`The middleware <middleware>` can catch that case, provided
you're checking the ``request.pwned_passwords`` attribute in your view code.

Using :ref:`the direct API <api>` should only be necessary in rare cases where
neither the validator nor the middleware is sufficient.


I'm getting timeouts from the Pwned Passwords API. What can I do?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

By default, pwned-passwords-django makes requests to the Pwned Passwords API
with a timeout of one second. You can change this by specifying the Django
setting :data:`~django.conf.settings.PWNED_PASSWORDS` and setting the key
``API_TIMEOUT`` in it to a :class:`float` indicating your preferred timeout in
seconds. For example, to have a timeout of one and a half seconds, you'd set:

.. code-block:: python

  PWNED_PASSWORDS = {
      "API_TIMEOUT": 1.5,
  }


How can this be secure? It's sending passwords to some random site!
-------------------------------------------------------------------

It's *not* actually sending passwords to any other site, and that's the magic.

You can read about this in `the post announcing the launch of version 2 of
Pwned Passwords
<https://www.troyhunt.com/ive-just-launched-pwned-passwords-version-2/>`_, but
the summary of how it works is:

1. pwned-passwords-django hashes the password, and sends only the first five
   digits of the hexadecimal digest of the hash to Pwned Passwords.

2. Pwned Passwords responds with a list of hash suffixes (all the digits of the
   hash *except* the first five) for every entry in its database matching the
   submitted five-digit prefix.

3. pwned-passwords-django checks that list to see if the remainder of the
   password hash is present, and if so treats the password as compromised.

This means that neither the password, nor the full hash of the password, is
ever sent to any third-party site or service by pwned-passwords-django.

.. warning:: **You can still accidentally disclose passwords!**

   pwned-passwords-django uses an API that never discloses the password or its
   hash, but that doesn't mean the rest of your code or third-party libraries
   won't.

   You should take care to use `Django's tools for filtering sensitive
   information from tracebacks and error reports
   <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/howto/error-reporting/#filtering-sensitive-information>`_
   to ensure that your logging and monitoring systems don't accidentally log or
   expose raw passwords or their hashes. The utilities inside
   pwned-passwords-django :ref:`do what they can to mitigate this
   <filter-sensitive>`, but other code that interacts with
   pwned-passwords-django may need take its own measures.

   You should also be extremely conservative about allowing third-party
   JavaScript to run on your site, and periodically audit all JavaScript you
   use; remember that JavaScript can access anything your users enter on your
   site, and potentially do malicious things with that information.


How do I run the tests?
-----------------------

pwned-passwords-django's tests are run using `nox <https://nox.thea.codes/>`_,
but typical installation of pwned-passwords-django (via ``pip install
pwned-passwords-django``) will not install the tests.

To run the tests, download the source (`.tar.gz`) distribution of
pwned-passwords-django |release| from `its page on the Python Package Index
<https://pypi.org/project/pwned-passwords-django/>`_, unpack it (``tar zxvf
pwned-passwords-django-|version|.tar.gz`` on most Unix-like operating systems),
and in the unpacked directory run the following at a command prompt:

.. tab:: macOS/Linux/other Unix

   .. code-block:: shell

      python -m pip install nox
      python -m nox

.. tab:: Windows

   .. code-block:: shell

      py -m pip install nox
      py -m nox

Note that to run the full test matrix you will need to have each supported
version of Python available. To run only specific test tasks, you can invoke
``nox`` with the ``-s`` flag to select a single test task, ``-t`` to run all
tasks matching a particular tag (like ``docs``), or ``--python`` passing a
Python version to run only tasks for that version. For example, to run tests
for Python 3.10 only, you could run:

.. tab:: macOS/Linux/other Unix

   .. code-block:: shell

      python -m nox --python "3.10"

.. tab:: Windows

   .. code-block:: shell

      py -m nox --python "3.10"

By default, ``nox`` will only run the tasks whose associated Python versions
are available on your system. For example, if you have only Python 3.8 and 3.9
installed, test runs for Python 3.7, 3.10, and 3.11 would be skipped.


How am I allowed to use this code?
----------------------------------

The pwned-passwords-django module is distributed under a `three-clause BSD
license <http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>`_. This is an open-source
license which grants you broad freedom to use, redistribute, modify and
distribute modified versions of pwned-passwords-django. For details, see the
file `LICENSE` in the source distribution of pwned-passwords-django.

.. _three-clause BSD license: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause


I found a bug or want to make an improvement!
---------------------------------------------

The canonical development repository for pwned-passwords-django is online at
<https://github.com/ubernostrum/pwned-passwords-django>. Issues and pull
requests can both be filed there.
